README.md, before:

Legisworks Historical Statutes at Large Data
============================================

The Legisworks Statutes at Large Project consists of metadata and per-statute PDF files for 32,181 enties in the U.S. Statutes at Large through volume 64, which contains all ~28,000 laws enacted by the United States Congress through 1951.

What's Here
-----------

The following table gives an overview of the data in this repository. As the table shows, this repository contains information on the first 64 volumes of the Statutes at Large (1st Congress through 81st Congress, 1789-January 1951). The `Pages` column gives the total of the page counts of the items for which there is metadata (which may be more than the total page count of the volume because entries can share a page).

The final six columns gives the total number of entries in each volume by type (for the most frequent types). You can see that between the 31st and 32nd volumes, the numbering of laws switched over from the old Chapter format to the new Public Law format.

|Volume|Congress|Pages|publaw|chap|pubres|jointres|proc|treaty|
|-----:|-------:|----:|-----:|---:|-----:|-------:|---:|-----:|
|1|1-5|1,247|0|459|0|28|0|0|
|2|6-12|1,542|0|691|0|22|0|0|
|3|13-17|1,573|0|703|0|62|9|0|
|4|18-23|1,730|0|849|0|50|9|0|
|5|24-28|1,496|0|611|0|81|2|0|
|6|1-28|1,039|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|7|n/a|846|0|0|0|0|0|242|
|8|n/a|708|0|0|0|0|0|88|
|9|29-31|1,199|0|347|0|80|11|0|
|10|32-33|1,054|0|274|0|51|3|0|
|11|34-35|1,308|0|228|0|59|52|30|
|12|36-37|2,080|0|464|119|0|19|47|
|13|38|1,100|0|319|0|93|52|0|
|14|39|1,022|0|306|122|0|9|0|
|15|40|793|0|226|128|0|15|0|
|16|41|1,110|0|306|156|0|17|0|
|17|42|1,189|0|515|16|0|15|0|
|18|43|1,734|0|387|0|23|12|25|
|19|44|954|0|249|27|0|10|0|
|20|45|823|0|254|49|0|8|0|
|21|46|902|0|285|84|0|6|0|
|22|47|1,073|0|332|89|0|5|0|
|23|48|822|0|212|65|0|14|0|
|24|49|1,602|0|338|57|0|10|0|
|25|50|1,605|0|506|62|0|8|0|
|26|51|1,772|0|530|80|0|18|0|
|27|52|1,298|0|347|0|51|50|0|
|28|53|2,838|0|374|0|89|17|0|
|29|54|1,395|0|355|0|78|31|0|
|30|55|1,960|0|449|0|103|26|0|
|31|56|1,929|0|382|0|60|21|0|
|32|57|1,710|423|0|57|0|0|0|
|33|58|1,858|502|0|73|0|0|0|
|34|59|2,201|692|0|83|0|0|0|
|35|60|1,579|350|0|61|0|0|0|
|36|61|2,055|526|0|69|0|0|0|
|37|62|2,125|457|0|73|0|0|0|
|38|63|1,643|342|0|75|0|0|0|
|39|64|1,660|400|0|58|0|0|0|
|40|65|1,757|349|0|56|0|0|0|
|41|66|1,917|401|0|69|0|0|0|
|42|67|2,215|549|0|105|0|0|0|
|43|68|2,065|632|0|75|0|0|0|
|44|69|2,335|808|0|71|0|0|0|
|45|70|2,845|1,037|0|108|0|0|0|
|46|71|2,636|869|0|140|0|0|0|
|47|72|2,138|442|0|74|0|0|0|
|48|73|1,830|486|0|53|0|0|0|
|49|74|3,027|851|0|136|0|0|0|
|50|75|1,405|415|0|74|0|0|0|
|51|75|446|2|0|3|0|18|0|
|52|75|1,681|372|0|53|0|0|0|
|53|76|1,384|400|0|52|0|0|0|
|54|76|1,815|494|0|59|0|0|0|
|55|77|1,274|397|0|0|0|0|0|
|56|77|1,543|453|0|0|0|0|0|
|57|78|860|219|0|0|0|0|0|
|58|78|1,262|349|0|0|0|0|0|
|59|79|981|294|0|0|0|0|0|
|60|79|1,527|440|0|0|0|0|0|
|61|80|1,340|395|0|0|0|0|0|
|62|80|1,829|511|0|0|0|0|0|
|63|81|1,509|440|0|0|0|0|0|
|64|81|1,724|481|0|0|0|0|0|


History
-------

The Legisworks Statutes at Large Project (http://legisworks.org/sal/) was a project led by Joe Carmel in July 2014 to create permalinks at http://legislink.org/us to PDFs for each United States statute enacted through 1951 (Statutes at Large volume 64). At the time (and still now), there was no authoritative digital source for these statues (although several unofficial sources existed) and no permalinks to indiviual statutes. In addition, the project created a cross-walk between volume-and-page Statutes at Large citations to public law numbers and related citation formats. (For statues since 1951 / volume 65, see https://www.govinfo.gov/app/collection/STATUTE.)

The PDFs were originally sourced from [Constitution.org](http://www.constitution.org/uslaw/sal/sal.htm), who had digitized and OCRd the physical volumes. Volunteers typed up the per-statute page numbers, topic, and title, and split the PDFs into per-statute files. (The volunteers were Daniel Schuman, Joseph Jerome, Sara S. Frug, Owen Ambur, Matthew Steinberg, Eric Branson, Kathy K. Carmichael, Susannah Savage, Azhar Unwala, and Daniel Bennett.) In 2019, Joe asked Joshua Tauberer to take over the project --- Joshua converted the information to the YAML metadata files in this repository.

The data in this repository is messy. The Statutes at Large itself is messy (there are law numbers with "½" symbols!), the original PDFs were missing some pages, the scans and OCR which may have been used to extract text metadata were imperfect, the metadata was often typed by hand, etc.

Metadata
--------

The [data](data) directory contains a YAML-formatted file for each volume of the U.S. Statutes at Large [001.yaml](data/001.yaml) through [064.yaml](data/064.yaml). Each file is an array describing the entries in the volume. An entry can be a law, a resolution, and collection of laws for a session, and so on.

Entries begin with the following fields:

```yaml
- volume: 1
  page: 755
  npages: 2
  file: STATUTE-1-Pg755.pdf
```

The first three fields are the Statutes at Large volume number that the item appears in, the page number of the first page the item appears on, and the number of pages the item appears on. The first two fields are commonly used for `x Stat. y` citations. When there are items that are less than one page long, multiple items can start on the same page, and so `x Stat. y` citations can be ambiguous.

The `file` field indicates where the file lives --- documented below.

Many entries also have a `topic` and `title`, which are metadata that appears in and was typed up from the actual Statutes at Large.

```yaml
  topic: District of Columbia, abandonment of W street
  title: AN ACT to authorize the abandonment of W street northeast, Washington, District
    of Columbia. April 12, 1904 174
```

Most entries will additionally have fields drawn from those in the following example:

```yaml
  congress: 58
  session: 2
  type: publaw
  number: 108
  citation: Pub. Law 58-108
```

There was no consistent numbering of laws or other entries throughout the full history of the Statutes at Large. Consequently, all fields are optional.

`congress` and `session` refer to the Congress number and session in which the law was enacted or to which item pertains. Both are integers. `session` is 1, 2, or 3.

`type` can be one of:

* `publaw` (Pub. Law; Public Law), volumes 32-64
* `chap` (Chapter, the early numbering method for laws), volumes 1-31
* `private-chap` (Priv. Chapter), volume 18 only
* `jointres` (Joint Res.; Joint Resolutions), volumes 1-31 (after which these are numbered as public laws)
* `pubres` (Pub. Res.; Public Resolution)
* `proc` (Pres\. Proc\.; Presidential Proclamation)
* `treaty` (Treaty)
* `tsnum` (T. S.; another treaty designation)
* `eas` (E. A. S.; an international agreement)
* `exec-order` (Exec. Order; Executive Order)
* `hjres` and `sjres` (House and Senate Joint Resolutions, perhaps only in cases of constitutional amendments)

and several lesser used values.

(Public laws refers to laws that are generally applicable, while private laws refers to laws that affected a small number of individualls, usually by name, and often related to immigration matters.)

`number` is the law number or other number associated with the item. The value is an integer in almost all cases. In a very small number of cases the value is a string containing the letter A or the symbol ½.

The `congress`, `session`, `type`, and `number` taken together can unqiuely identify virtually all entries in the dataset. (Where it doesn't, it may be a data entry error.) Prior to volume 38 (the 60th Congress), the numbering of entries restarted with each _session_, but starting with that volume, `congress`, `type`, and `number` are sufficient to uniquely identify virtually all entries (with the handful remaining being possible data errors).

`citation` contains a display form of a citation to the item. The citation may be ambiguous, however, since the citation format may only contain information about the `type` and `number` or `congress`, `type`, and `number`, depending on the volume.

A small number of entries also have a `chapter` field, during a period in which entries were assigned sequential numbers both by type and in the obsoleted chapter format.

Additionally, some special items have an `id` field, as in:

```yaml
- volume: 1
  page: 1
  npages: 5
  id: DECLARATION
  topic: ~
  title: The Declaration of Independence (July 4, 1776)
  file: STATUTE-1-Pg1.pdf
```

PDF Files
---------

The `file` field on each entry indicates where a PDF file lives that holds just the pages of the entry.

To acess the PDF, form a URL by substituting the `volume` and `file` fields into

    https://govtrackus.s3.amazonaws.com/legislink/pdf/stat/{volume}/{file}

For instance [https://govtrackus.s3.amazonaws.com/legislink/pdf/stat/46/STATUTE-46-Pg822a.pdf](https://govtrackus.s3.amazonaws.com/legislink/pdf/stat/46/STATUTE-46-Pg822a.pdf) holds Pub. Law 71-457.

Commit message:

document the eight cases of non-integer numbers

README.md, after:

Legisworks Historical Statutes at Large Data
============================================

The Legisworks Statutes at Large Project consists of metadata and per-statute PDF files for 32,181 enties in the U.S. Statutes at Large through volume 64, which contains all ~28,000 laws enacted by the United States Congress through 1951.

What's Here
-----------

The following table gives an overview of the data in this repository. As the table shows, this repository contains information on the first 64 volumes of the Statutes at Large (1st Congress through 81st Congress, 1789-January 1951). The `Pages` column gives the total of the page counts of the items for which there is metadata (which may be more than the total page count of the volume because entries can share a page).

The final six columns gives the total number of entries in each volume by type (for the most frequent types). You can see that between the 31st and 32nd volumes, the numbering of laws switched over from the old Chapter format to the new Public Law format.

|Volume|Congress|Pages|Pub. Law|Chapter|Pub. Res.|Joint Res.|Pres. Proc.|Treaty|
|-----:|-------:|----:|-----:|---:|-----:|-------:|---:|-----:|
|1|1-5|1,247|0|459|0|28|0|0|
|2|6-12|1,542|0|691|0|22|0|0|
|3|13-17|1,573|0|703|0|62|9|0|
|4|18-23|1,730|0|849|0|50|9|0|
|5|24-28|1,496|0|611|0|81|2|0|
|6|1-28|1,039|0|0|0|0|0|0|
|7|n/a|846|0|0|0|0|0|242|
|8|n/a|708|0|0|0|0|0|88|
|9|29-31|1,199|0|347|0|80|11|0|
|10|32-33|1,054|0|274|0|51|3|0|
|11|34-35|1,308|0|228|0|59|52|30|
|12|36-37|2,080|0|464|119|0|19|47|
|13|38|1,100|0|319|0|93|52|0|
|14|39|1,022|0|306|122|0|9|0|
|15|40|793|0|226|128|0|15|0|
|16|41|1,110|0|306|156|0|17|0|
|17|42|1,189|0|515|16|0|15|0|
|18|43|1,734|0|387|0|23|12|25|
|19|44|954|0|249|27|0|10|0|
|20|45|823|0|254|49|0|8|0|
|21|46|902|0|285|84|0|6|0|
|22|47|1,073|0|332|89|0|5|0|
|23|48|822|0|212|65|0|14|0|
|24|49|1,602|0|338|57|0|10|0|
|25|50|1,605|0|506|62|0|8|0|
|26|51|1,772|0|530|80|0|18|0|
|27|52|1,298|0|347|0|51|50|0|
|28|53|2,838|0|374|0|89|17|0|
|29|54|1,395|0|355|0|78|31|0|
|30|55|1,960|0|449|0|103|26|0|
|31|56|1,929|0|382|0|60|21|0|
|32|57|1,710|423|0|57|0|0|0|
|33|58|1,858|502|0|73|0|0|0|
|34|59|2,201|692|0|83|0|0|0|
|35|60|1,579|350|0|61|0|0|0|
|36|61|2,055|526|0|69|0|0|0|
|37|62|2,125|457|0|73|0|0|0|
|38|63|1,643|342|0|75|0|0|0|
|39|64|1,660|400|0|58|0|0|0|
|40|65|1,757|349|0|56|0|0|0|
|41|66|1,917|401|0|69|0|0|0|
|42|67|2,215|549|0|105|0|0|0|
|43|68|2,065|632|0|75|0|0|0|
|44|69|2,335|808|0|71|0|0|0|
|45|70|2,845|1,037|0|108|0|0|0|
|46|71|2,636|869|0|140|0|0|0|
|47|72|2,138|442|0|74|0|0|0|
|48|73|1,830|486|0|53|0|0|0|
|49|74|3,027|851|0|136|0|0|0|
|50|75|1,405|415|0|74|0|0|0|
|51|75|446|2|0|3|0|18|0|
|52|75|1,681|372|0|53|0|0|0|
|53|76|1,384|400|0|52|0|0|0|
|54|76|1,815|494|0|59|0|0|0|
|55|77|1,274|397|0|0|0|0|0|
|56|77|1,543|453|0|0|0|0|0|
|57|78|860|219|0|0|0|0|0|
|58|78|1,262|349|0|0|0|0|0|
|59|79|981|294|0|0|0|0|0|
|60|79|1,527|440|0|0|0|0|0|
|61|80|1,340|395|0|0|0|0|0|
|62|80|1,829|511|0|0|0|0|0|
|63|81|1,509|440|0|0|0|0|0|
|64|81|1,724|481|0|0|0|0|0|


History
-------

The Legisworks Statutes at Large Project (http://legisworks.org/sal/) was a project led by Joe Carmel in July 2014 to create permalinks at http://legislink.org/us to PDFs for each United States statute enacted through 1951 (Statutes at Large volume 64). At the time (and still now), there was no authoritative digital source for these statues (although several unofficial sources existed) and no permalinks to indiviual statutes. In addition, the project created a cross-walk between volume-and-page Statutes at Large citations to public law numbers and related citation formats. (For statues since 1951 / volume 65, see https://www.govinfo.gov/app/collection/STATUTE.)

The PDFs were originally sourced from [Constitution.org](http://www.constitution.org/uslaw/sal/sal.htm), who had digitized and OCRd the physical volumes. Volunteers typed up the per-statute page numbers, topic, and title, and split the PDFs into per-statute files. (The volunteers were Daniel Schuman, Joseph Jerome, Sara S. Frug, Owen Ambur, Matthew Steinberg, Eric Branson, Kathy K. Carmichael, Susannah Savage, Azhar Unwala, and Daniel Bennett.) In 2019, Joe asked Joshua Tauberer to take over the project --- Joshua converted the information to the YAML metadata files in this repository.

The data in this repository is messy. The Statutes at Large itself is messy (there are law numbers with "½" symbols!), the original PDFs were missing some pages, the scans and OCR which may have been used to extract text metadata were imperfect, the metadata was often typed by hand, etc.

Metadata
--------

The [data](data) directory contains a YAML-formatted file for each volume of the U.S. Statutes at Large [001.yaml](data/001.yaml) through [064.yaml](data/064.yaml). Each file is an array describing the entries in the volume. An entry can be a law, a resolution, and collection of laws for a session, and so on.

Entries begin with the following fields:

```yaml
- volume: 1
  page: 755
  npages: 2
  file: STATUTE-1-Pg755.pdf
```

The first three fields are the Statutes at Large volume number that the item appears in, the page number of the first page the item appears on, and the number of pages the item appears on. The first two fields are commonly used for `x Stat. y` citations. When there are items that are less than one page long, multiple items can start on the same page, and so `x Stat. y` citations can be ambiguous.

The `file` field indicates where the file lives --- documented below.

Many entries also have a `topic` and `title`, which are metadata that appears in and was typed up from the actual Statutes at Large.

```yaml
  topic: District of Columbia, abandonment of W street
  title: AN ACT to authorize the abandonment of W street northeast, Washington, District
    of Columbia. April 12, 1904 174
```

Most entries will additionally have fields drawn from those in the following example:

```yaml
  congress: 58
  session: 2
  type: publaw
  number: 108
  citation: Pub. Law 58-108
```

There was no consistent numbering of laws or other entries throughout the full history of the Statutes at Large. Consequently, all fields are optional.

`congress` and `session` refer to the Congress number and session in which the law was enacted or to which item pertains. Both are integers. `session` is 1, 2, or 3.

`type` can be one of:

* `publaw` (Pub. Law; Public Law), volumes 32-64
* `chap` (Chapter, the early numbering method for laws), volumes 1-31
* `private-chap` (Priv. Chapter), volume 18 only
* `jointres` (Joint Res.; Joint Resolutions), volumes 1-31 (after which these are numbered as public laws)
* `pubres` (Pub. Res.; Public Resolution)
* `proc` (Pres\. Proc\.; Presidential Proclamation)
* `treaty` (Treaty)
* `tsnum` (T. S.; another treaty designation)
* `eas` (E. A. S.; an international agreement)
* `exec-order` (Exec. Order; Executive Order)
* `hjres` and `sjres` (House and Senate Joint Resolutions, perhaps only in cases of constitutional amendments)

and several lesser used values.

(Public laws refers to laws that are generally applicable, while private laws refers to laws that affected a small number of individualls, usually by name, and often related to immigration matters.)

`number` is the law number or other number associated with the item. The value is an integer in almost all cases,  but in eight cases the Statutes at Large contains an entry with an odd number:

| Volume | Page | Entry | Number |
| ------ | ---- | ----- | ---- |
| 36 | 352 | Pub. Law 61-167½ | '167½' |
| 40 | 1053 | Pub. Law 65-246½ | '246½' |
| 42 | 147 | Pub. Law 67-45-46 | '45-46' |
| 44 | 777 | Pub. Law 69-439½ | '439½' |
| 49 | 674 | Pub. Law 74-297½ | '297½' |
| 49 | 1894 | Pub. Law 74-770½ | '770½' |
| 51 | 295 | E. A. S. 75-107A | '107-A' |
| 59 | 502 | Pub. Law 79-160-A | '160-A' |


The `congress`, `session`, `type`, and `number` taken together can unqiuely identify virtually all entries in the dataset. (Where it doesn't, it may be a data entry error.) Prior to volume 38 (the 60th Congress), the numbering of entries restarted with each _session_, but starting with that volume, `congress`, `type`, and `number` are sufficient to uniquely identify virtually all entries (with the handful remaining being possible data errors).

`citation` contains a display form of a citation to the item. The citation may be ambiguous, however, since the citation format may only contain information about the `type` and `number` or `congress`, `type`, and `number`, depending on the volume.

A small number of entries also have a `chapter` field, during a period in which entries were assigned sequential numbers both by type and in the obsoleted chapter format.

Additionally, some special items have an `id` field, as in:

```yaml
- volume: 1
  page: 1
  npages: 5
  id: DECLARATION
  topic: ~
  title: The Declaration of Independence (July 4, 1776)
  file: STATUTE-1-Pg1.pdf
```

PDF Files
---------

The `file` field on each entry indicates where a PDF file lives that holds just the pages of the entry.

To acess the PDF, form a URL by substituting the `volume` and `file` fields into

    https://govtrackus.s3.amazonaws.com/legislink/pdf/stat/{volume}/{file}

For instance [https://govtrackus.s3.amazonaws.com/legislink/pdf/stat/46/STATUTE-46-Pg822a.pdf](https://govtrackus.s3.amazonaws.com/legislink/pdf/stat/46/STATUTE-46-Pg822a.pdf) holds Pub. Law 71-457.
